---

In the past several years, I had opportunities to participate in many business meetings to raise funds or build partnerships. Some failed and some became successful. I did not reach my goals in all attempts but I learned lessons that helped me going forward. Here, I want to share lessons that I learned over these years. These lessons may help you find answers to questions like "How to persuade the other party to get on board?", or "How to plan for making a request?". In the end, you must mix these lessons with your personality, and come up with a strategy that suits you well.


---

- Build trust, prove legitimacy, and connect emotionally.
The first step is to build mutual trust. This does not happen overnight though. You must build a relationship over time and prove your legitimacy. If you don't have that much time, the best way is to present yourself in a convincing short story that emotionally connects with the other party. We are all human after all and, most of the time, we decide based on our emotions.
For any negotiation, you must identify the needs of the other party soon in the process. Then, you must convince them that you are the best available option to resolve their needs. So, you must actively listen to their questions and concerns and address them meticulously. A person that can listen, understand, and respond cohesively is always a good partner or co-worker.
Always aim to identify what they need and what value you can bring to the table rather than what you need and what they can do for you.
- Be clear on your asks but not too much.
You must be clear on your asks since, otherwise, the other party doesn't understand how should respond. Nothing is worse than confusion in business meetings. Nevertheless, you must show a bit of sophistication and intentionally stay unclear in some parts of your asks.
When you intentionally stay vague, you basically guide the other side to ask questions that you expect. In that case, you can show having control over the process. This also helps you let them bring up topics that you may not anticipate. Note that if you have only one chance to present, such as participating in Shark Tank, you must be cautious about this rule. The rule is still valid but you need to apply it cautiously.
You must share information carefully and stay away from unwanted situations in negotiations. That helps to foresee and, then, control how the negotiation proceeds.
- Show you are one-step ahead in negotiation.
People always want to work with those who are smarter or more prepared. If you show that you are one step ahead from the other side, it gives them confidence that you are the one. This is a way to persuade the other party to jump in a deal. So, you must do your homework before an important negotiation and set a strategy to persuade the other party to get on board.
Plus, when you prepare enough for a negotiation you can recognize the level of negotiation power that you have. You must study previous stories both success and failure ones to identify your negotiation power. You need this information to be able to plan for the negotiation. For example, if you are in the process of raising funds for your business you must study how the other side usually responds to various offers, or what are their cheque sizes and their sincere interests. You should study how they respond to previous cases and be prepared for every situation.
You must persuade the other party to jump in a deal with, for example, showing you are one step ahead of them or creating fear-of-missing-out for them.
- Prioritize your negotiation goals beforehand.
You must have a prioritized list of goals that you want to reach for each round of discussion. If the first goal can not be achieved, you can easily switch to your second goal without any interruption in the process. This approach also makes you capable of assessing your success in reaching goals.
Human psychology tends to justify one's action to synthetically induce success. So, if you don't set goals beforehand you never be able to recognize how successful you are.
It is important to have a list of prioritized goals for yourself. However, you must not let the other side know about the significance of each goal. You must have a strategy to make requests at the right moment. For example, it is not recommended to start with your main request since you may hit a wall fast. Plus, you should not let them know about the risks that you encounter currently. That can totally wreck your plan.
You must have a strategy to make requests at the right moments, e.g., it is not recommended to bring up the main request fast unless you have only one chance.
- Know your walkaway terms.
You will encounter cases that you can't easily settle on desired terms. Therefore, it is important to determine the walk-away terms for yourself. They help you recognize when you should leave the negotiation table since the risk-reward analysis doesn't support it anymore.
For example, you did a series of negotiations with a company to invest in your business; however, the end results are not acceptable. You have no chance to leave the negotiation table. If you reasonably and respectfully leave the negotiation table, not only it prevents the other party from enforcing its terms to you but also it may open new doors for you.
It is painful to fail in an attempt but you shouldn't overreact. So, be patient in the process and don't make a decision fast.

